Quick Recipes
=============

Overview
--------

This manual contains documentation for over two hundred functions and
several dozen extension object types. Learning to combine the right
functions in order to accomplish a visualization task without guidance
would involve hours of trial and error. To maximize productivity and
start creating visualizations using Visit_'s Python Interface as fast as
possible, this chapter provides some common patterns, or "quick recipes"
that you can combine to quickly create complex scripts.

How to start
------------

The most important question when developing a script is: "Where do I
start?". You can either use session files that you used to save the
state of your visualization to initialize the plots before you start
scripting or you can script every aspect of plot initialization.

Using session files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt_'s session files contain all of the information required to
recreate plots that have been set up in previous interactive VisIt
sessions. Since session files contain all of the information about
plots, etc., they are natural candidates to make scripting easier since
they can be used to do the hard part of setting up the complex
visualization, leaving the bulk of the script to animate through time or
alter the plots in some way. To use session files within a script, use
the RestoreSession function.

::

    # Import a session file from the current working directory. 
    RestoreSesssion("my_visualization.session", 0) 
    # Now that VisIt has restored the session, animate through time.
    for state in range(TimeSliderGetNStates()): 
      SetTimeSliderState(state) 
      SaveWindow() 

Getting something on the screen
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you don't want to use a session file to begin the setup for your
visualization then you will have to dive into opening databases,
creating plots, and animating through time. This is where all of
hand-crafted scripts begin. The first step in creating a visualization
is opening a database. VisIt provides the OpenDatabase function to open
a database. Once a database has been opened, you can create plots from
its variables using the AddPlot function. The AddPlot function takes a
plot plugin name and the name of a variable from the open database. Once
you've added a plot, it is in the new state, which means that it has not
yet been submitted to the compute engine for processing. To make sure
that the plot gets drawn, call the DrawPlots function.

::

    # Step 1: Open a database 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/wave.visit") 

    # Step 2: Add plots 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "pressure") 
    AddPlot("Mesh", "quadmesh") 

    # Step 3: Draw the plots 
    DrawPlots() 

    # Step 4: Animate through time and save images 
    for states in range(TimeSliderGetNStates()): 
      SetTimeSliderState(state) 
      SaveWindow() 

Saving images
-------------

Much of the time, the entire purpose of using VisIt_'s Python Interface
is to create a script that can save out images of a time-varying
database for the purpose of making movies. Saving images using VisIt_'s
Python Interface is a straight-forward process, involving just a few
functions.

Setting the output image characteristics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt provides a number of options for saving files, including:
format, fileName, and image width and height, to name a few. These attributes
are grouped into the SaveWindowAttributes object. To set the options
that VisIt uses to save files, you must create a SaveWindowAttributes
object, change the necessary attributes, and call the
SetSaveWindowAttributes function. Note that if you want to create images
using a specific image resolution, the best way is to use the
*-geometry* command line argument with VisIt_'s Command Line Interface
and tell VisIt to use screen capture. If you instead require your script
to be capable of saving several different image sizes then you can turn
off screen capture and set the image resolution in the
SaveWindowAttributes object.

::

    # Save a BMP file at 1024x768 resolution 
    s = SaveWindowAttributes() 
    s.format = s.BMP 
    s.fileName = "mybmpfile" 
    s.width, s.height = 1024,768 
    s.screenCapture = 0 
    SetSaveWindowAttributes(s) 

Saving an image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once you have set the SaveWindowAttributes to your liking, you can call
the SaveWindow function to save an image. The SaveWindow function
returns the name of the image that is saved so you can use that for
other purposes in your script.

::

    # Save images of all timesteps and add each image filename to a list. 
    names = [] 
    for state in range(TimeSliderGetNStates()): 
      SetTimeSliderState(state) 
      # Save the image 
      n = SaveWindow() 
      names = names + [n] 
    print names 

Working with databases
----------------------

VisIt allows you to open a wide array of databases both in terms of
supported file formats and in terms how databases treat time. Databases
can have a single time state or can have multiple time states. Databases
can natively support multiple time states or sets of single time states
files can be grouped into time-varying databases using .visit files or
using virtual databases. Working with databases gets even trickier if
you are using VisIt to visualize a database that is still being
generated by a simulation. This section describes how to interact with
databases.

Opening a database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Opening a database is a relatively simple operation - most complexities
arise in how the database treats time. If you only want to visualize a
single time state or if your database format natively supports multiple
timestates per file then opening a database requires just a single call
to the OpenDatabase function.

::

    # Open a database at time state 0 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/allinone00.pdb") 

Opening a database at late time
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Opening a database at a later timestate is done just the same as opening
a database at time state zero except that you must specify the time
state at which you want to open the database. There are a number of
reasons for opening a database at a later time state. The most common
reason for doing so, as opposed to just changing time states later, is
that VisIt uses the metadata from the first opened time state to
describe the contents of the database for all timestates (except for
certain file formats that don't do this, i.e. SAMRAI). This means that
the list of variables found for the first time state that you open is
used for all timestates. If your database contains a variable at a later
timestate that does not exist at earlier time states, you must open the
database at a later time state to gain access to the transient variable.

::

    # Open a database at a later time state to pick up transient variables 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/wave.visit", 17) 

Opening a virtual database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt provides two ways for accessing a set of single time-state files
as a single time- varying database. The first method is a .visit file,
which is a simple text file that contains the names of each file to be
used as a time state in the time-varying database. The second method
uses "virtual databases", which allow VisIt to exploit the file naming
conventions that are often employed by simulation codes when they create
their dumps. In many cases, VisIt can scan a specified directory and
determine which filenames look related. Filenames with close matches are
grouped as individual time states into a virtual database whose name is
based on the more abstract pattern used to create the filenames.

::

    # Opening first file in series wave0000.silo, wave0010.silo, ... 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/wave0000.silo") 

    # Opening a virtual database representing all wave*.silo files. 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/wave*.silo database.) 

Opening a remote database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt supports running the client on a local computer while also
allowing you to process data in parallel on a remote computer. If you
want to access databases on a remote computer using VisIt_'s Python
Interface, the only difference to accessing a database on a local
computer is that you must specify a host name as part of the database
name.

::

    # Opening a file on a remote computer by giving a host name 
    # Also, open the database to a later time slice (17)
    OpenDatabase("thunder:/usr/local/visit/data/wave.visit", 17)

Opening a compute engine
------------------------

Sometimes it is advantageous to open a compute engine before opening a
database. When you tell VisIt to open a database using the OpenDatabase
function, VisIt also launches a compute engine and tells the compute
engine to open the specified database. When the VisIt Python Interface
is run with a visible window, the **Engine Chooser Window** will present
itself so you can select a host profile. If you want to design a script
that must specify parallel options, etc in batch mode where there is no
**Engine ChooserWindow** then you have few options other than to open a
compute engine before opening a database. To open a compute engine, use
the OpenComputeEngine function. You can pass the name of the host on
which to run the compute engine and any arguments that must be used to
launch the engine such as the number of processors.

::

    # Open a local, parallel compute engine before opening a database 
    # Use 4 processors on 2 nodes
    OpenComputeEngine("localhost", ("-np", "4", "-nn", "2"))
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/multi_ucd3d.silo") 

The options for starting the compute engine are the same as the ones used
on the command line. Here are the most common options for launching a
compute engine.

::

    -l    <method>       Launch in parallel using the given method.
    -np   <# procs>      The number of processors to use.
    -nn   <# nodes>      The number of nodes to allocate.
    -p    <part>         Partition to run in.
    -b    <bank>         Bank from which to draw resources.
    -t    <time>         Maximum job run time.
    -machinefile <file>  Machine file.


The full list of parallel launch options can be obtained by typing
``visit --fullhelp``. Here is a more complex example of launching a compute
engine.

::

    # Use the "srun" job launcher, the "batch" partition, the "mybank" bank,
    # 72 processors on 2 nodes and a time limit of 1 hour
    OpenComputeEngine("localhost",("-l", "srun",
                                   "-p", "batch",
                                   "-b", "mybank",
                                   "-np", "72",
                                   "-nn", "2",
                                   "-t", "1:00:00"))

You can also launch a compute engine using one of the existing host
profiles defined for your system. In this particular case we know that
the third profile is for the "parallel batch pbatch" profile. If you
didn't know this you could print "p" to get all the properties.

::

    # Set the user name to "user1" and use the third profile,
    # overriding a few of its properties
    p = GetMachineProfile("quartz.llnl.gov")
    p.userName="user1"
    p.activeProfile = 2
    p.GetLaunchProfiles(2).numProcessors = 72
    p.GetLaunchProfiles(2).numNodes = 2
    p.GetLaunchProfiles(2).timeLimit = "00:30:00"
    OpenComputeEngine(p)

Working with plots
------------------

Plots are viewable objects, created from a database, that can be
displayed in a visualization window. VisIt provides several types of
plots and each plot allows you to view data using different
visualization techniques. For example, the Pseudocolor plot allows you
to see the general shape of a simulated object while painting colors on
it according to the values stored in a variable's scalar field. The most
important functions for interacting with plots are covered in this
section.

Creating a plot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The function for adding a plot in VisIt is: AddPlot. The AddPlot
function takes the name of a plot type and the name of a variable that
is to be plotted and creates a new plot and adds it to the plot list.
The name of the plot to be created corresponds to the name of one of
VisIt_'s plot plugins, which can be queried using the PlotPlugins
function. The variable that you pass to the AddPlot function must be a
valid variable for the opened database. New plots are not realized,
meaning that they have not been submitted to the compute engine for
processing. If you want to force VisIt to process the new plot you must
call the DrawPlots function.

::

    # Names of all available plot plugins 
    print PlotPlugins() 
    # Create plots 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "pressure") 
    AddPlot("Mesh", "quadmesh") 
    # Draw the plots 
    DrawPlots() 

Plotting materials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Plotting materials is a common operation in VisIt. The Boundary and
FilledBoundary plots enable you to plot material boundaries and
materials, respectively.

::

    # Plot material boundaries 
    AddPlot("Boundary", "mat1") 
    # Plot materials 
    AddPlot("FilledBoundary", "mat1") 

Setting plot attributes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each plot type has an attributes object that controls how the plot
generates its data or how it looks in the visualization window. The
attributes object for each plot contains different fields. You can view
the individual object fields by printing the object to the console. Each
plot type provides a function that creates a new instance of one of its
attribute objects. The function name is always of the form: plotname +
"Attributes". For example, the attributes object creation function for
the Pseudocolor plot would be: PseudocolorAttributes. To change the
attributes for a plot, you create an attributes object using the
appropriate function, set the properties in the returned object, and
tell VisIt to use the new plot attributes by passing the object to the
SetPlotOptions function. Note that you should set a plot's attributes
before calling the DrawPlots method to realize the plot since setting a
plot's attributes can cause the compute engine to recalculate the plot.

::

    # Creating a Pseudocolor plot and setting min/max values. 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "pressure") 
    p = PseudocolorAttributes() 
    # Look in the object 
    print p 
    # Set the min/max values 
    p.min, p.minFlag = 0.0, 1 
    p.max, p.maxFlag = 10.0, 1 
    SetPlotOptions(p) 

Working with multiple plots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you work with more than one plot, it is sometimes necessary to set
the active plots because some of VisIt_'s functions apply to all of the
active plots. The active plot is usually the last plot that was created
unless you've changed the list of active plots. Changing which plots are
active is useful when you want to delete or hide certain plots or set
their plot attributes independently. When you want to set which plots
are active, use the SetActivePlots function. If you want to list the
plots that you've created, call the ListPlots function.

::

    # Create more than 1 plot of the same type 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "pressure") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "density") 

    # List the plots. The second plot should be active. 
    ListPlots() 

    # Draw the plots 
    DrawPlots() 

    # Hide the first plot 
    SetActivePlots(0) 
    HideActivePlots() 

    # Set both plots' color table to "hot" 
    p = PseudocolorAttributes() 
    p.colorTableName = "hot" 
    SetActivePlots((0,1)) 
    SetPlotOptions(p) 

    # Show the first plot again. 
    SetActivePlots(0) 
    HideActivePlots()

    # Delete the second plot 
    SetActivePlots(1) 
    DeleteActivePlots() 
    ListPlots() 

Plots in the error state
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When VisIt's compute engine cannot process a plot, the plot is put into
the error state. Once a plot is in the error state, it no longer is
displayed in the visualization window. If you are generating a movie,
plots entering the error state can be a serious problem because you most
often want all of the plots that you have created to animate through
time and not disappear in the middle of the animation. You can add extra
code to your script to prevent plots from disappearing (most of the
time) due to error conditions by adding a call to the DrawPlots
function.

::

    # Save an image and take care of plots that entered the error state. 
    drawThePlots = 0 
    for state in range(TimeSliderGetNStates()): 
      if SetTimeSliderState(state) == 0: 
        drawThePlots = 1 
      if drawThePlots == 1: 
        if DrawPlots() == 0: 
          print "VisIt could not draw plots for state: %d" % state 
        else: 
          drawThePlots = 0 
      SaveWindow() 

Operators
---------

Operators are filters that are applied to database variables before the
compute engine uses them to create plots. Operators can be linked one
after the other to form chains of operators that can drastically
transform the data before plotting it.

Adding operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Adding an operator is similar to adding a plot in that you call a
function with the name of the operator to be added. The list of
available operators is returned by the OperatorPlugins function. Any of
the names returned in that plugin can be used to add an operator using
the AddOperator function. Operators are added to the active plots by
default but you can also force VisIt to add them to all plots in the
plot list.

::

    # Print available operators 
    print OperatorPlugins() 
    # Create a plot 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor") 
    # Add an Isovolume operator and a Slice operator 
    AddOperator("Isovolume") 
    AddOperator("Slice") 
    DrawPlots() 

Setting operator attributes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each plot gets its own instance of an operator which means that you can
set each plot's operator attributes independently. Like plots, operators
use objects to set their attributes. These objects are returned by
functions whose names are of the form: operatorname + "Attributes". Once
you have created an operator attributes object, you can pass it to the
SetOperatorOptions to set the options for an operator. Note that setting
the attributes for an operator nearly always causes the compute engine
to recalculate the operator. You can use the power of VisIt's Python
Interface to create complex operator behavior such as in the following
code example, which moves slice planes through a Pseudocolor plot.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hardyglobal") 
    AddOperator("Slice") 
    s = SliceAttributes() 
    s.originType = s.Percent 
    s.project2d = 0 
    SetOperatorOptions(s) 
    DrawPlots() 

    nSteps = 20 
    for axis in (0,1,2): 
      s.axisType = axis 
      for step in range(nSteps): 
        t = float(step) / float(nSteps - 1) 
        s.originPercent = t * 100. 
        SetOperatorOptions(s) 
        SaveWindow()

Quantitative operations
-----------------------

This section focuses on some of the operations that allow you to examine
your data more quantitatively.

Defining expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt allows you to create derived variables using its powerful
expressions language. You can plot or query variables created using
expressions just as you would if they were read from a database. VisIt_'s
Python Interface allows you to create new scalar, vector, tensor
variables using the DefineScalarExpression, DefineVectorExpression, and
DefineTensorExpression functions.

::

    # Creating a new expression 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hardyglobal") 
    DrawPlots() 
    DefineScalarExpression("newvar", "sin(hardyglobal) + cos(shepardglobal") 
    ChangeActivePlotsVar("newvar") 

Pick
~~~~

VisIt allows you to pick on cells, nodes, and points within a database
and return information for the item of interest. To that end, VisIt
provides several pick functions. Once a pick function has been called,
you can call the GetPickOutput function to get a string that contains
the pick information. The information in the string could be used for a
multitude of uses such as building a test suite for a simulation code.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hgslice") 
    DrawPlots() 
    s = [] 
    # Pick by a node id 
    PickbyNode(300) 
    s = s + [GetPickOutput()] 
    # Pick by a cell id 
    PickByZone(250) 
    s = s + [GetPickOutput()] 
    # Pick on a cell using a 3d point 
    Pick((-2., 2., 0.)) 
    s = s + [GetPickOutput()] 
    # Pick on the node closest to (-2,2,0) 
    NodePick((-2,2,0)) 
    s = s + [GetPickOutput()] 
    # Print all pick results 
    print s

Lineout
~~~~~~~

VisIt allows you to extract data along a line, called a lineout, and
plot the data using a Curve plot.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hgslice") 
    DrawPlots() 
    Lineout((-5,-3), (5,8)) 
    # Specify a number of sample points 
    Lineout((-5,-4), (5,7))

Query
~~~~~

VisIt can perform a number of different queries based on values
calculated about plots or their originating database.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hardyglobal") 
    DrawPlots() 
    Query("NumNodes") 
    print "The float value is: %g" % GetQueryOutputValue() 
    Query("NumNodes") 

Finding the min and the max
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A common operation in debugging a simulation code is examining the min
and max values. Here is a pattern that allows you to print out the min
and the max values and their locations in the database and also see them
visually.

::

    # Define a helper function to get the id's of the MinMax query. 
    def GetMinMaxIds(): 
      Query("MinMax") 
      import string 
      s = string.split(GetQueryOutputString(), " ") 
      retval = [] 
      nextGood = 0 
      idType = 0 
      for token in s: 
        if token == "(zone" or token == "(cell": 
          idType = 1 
          nextGood = 1 
          continue 
        elif token == "(node": 
          idType = 0 
          nextGood = 1 
          continue 
        if nextGood == 1: 
           nextGood = 0 
           retval = retval + [(idType, int(token))] 
      return retval

    # Set up a plot 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hgslice") 
    DrawPlots() 

    # Do picks on the ids that were returned by MinMax. 
    for ids in GetMinMaxIds(): 
      idType = ids[0] 
      id = ids[1] 
      if idType == 0: 
        PickByNode(id) 
      else: 
        PickByZone(id) 

Subsetting
----------

VisIt allows the user to turn off subsets of the visualization using a
number of different methods. Databases can be divided up any number of
ways: domains, materials, etc. This section provides some details on how
to remove materials and domains from your visualization.

Turning off domains
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt_'s Python Interface provides the TurnDomainsOn and TurnDomainsOff
functions to make it easy to turn domains on and off.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/multi_rect2d.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "d") 
    DrawPlots() 
    # Turning off all but the last domain 
    d = GetDomains() 
    for dom in d[:-1]: 
      TurnDomainsOff(dom) 
    # Turn all domains off 
    TurnDomainsOff() 
    # Turn on domains 3,5,7 
    TurnDomainsOn((d[3], d[5], d[7]))

Turning off materials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt_'s Python Interface provides the TurnMaterialsOn and
TurnMaterialsOff functions to make it easy to turn materials on and off.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/multi_rect2d.silo") 
    AddPlot("FilledBoundary", "mat1") 
    DrawPlots() 
    # Print the materials are: 
    GetMaterials() 
    # Turn off material 2
    TurnMaterialsOff("2") 

View
----

Setting up the view in your Python script is one of the most important
things you can do to ensure the quality of your visualization because
the view concentrates attention on an object of interest. VisIt provides
different methods for setting the view, depending on the dimensionality
of the plots in the visualization window but despite differences in how
the view is set, the general procedure is basically the same.

Setting the 2D view
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The 2D view consists of a rectangular window in 2D space and a 2D
viewport in the visualization window. The window in 2D space determines
what parts of the visualization you will look at while the viewport
determines where the images will appear in the visualization window. It
is not necessary to change the viewport most of the time.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hgslice") 
    AddPlot("Mesh", "Mesh2D") 
    AddPlot("Label", "hgslice") 
    DrawPlots() 
    print "The current view is:", GetView2D() 
    # Get an initialized 2D view object. 
    v = GetView2D() 
    v.windowCoords = (-7.67964, -3.21856, 2.66766, 7.87724) 
    SetView2D(v) 

Setting the 3D view
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The 3D view is much more complex than the 2D view. For information on
the actual meaning of the fields in the View3DAttributes object, refer
to page 214 or the VisIt User Manual. VisIt automatically computes a
suitable view for 3D objects and it is best to initialize new
View3DAttributes objects using the GetView3D function so most of the
fields will already be initialized. The best way to get new views to use
in a script is to interactively create the plot and repeatedly call
GetView3D() after you finish rotating the plots with the mouse. You can
paste the printed view information into your script and modify it
slightly to create sophisticated view transitions.

::

    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/noise.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hardyglobal") 
    AddPlot("Mesh", "Mesh") 
    DrawPlots() 
    v = GetView3D() 
    print "The view is: ", v 
    v.viewNormal = (-0.571619, 0.405393, 0.713378) 
    v.viewUp = (0.308049, 0.911853, -0.271346) 
    SetView3D(v)

Flying around plots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Flying around plots is a commonly requested feature when making movies.
Fortunately, this is easy to script. The basic method used for flying
around plots is interpolating the view. VisIt provides a number of
functions that can interpolate View2DAttributes and View3DAttributes
objects. The most useful of these functions is the EvalCubicSpline
function. The EvalCubicSpline function uses piece-wise cubic polynomials
to smoothly interpolate between a tuple of N like items. Scripting
smooth view changes using EvalCubicSpline is rather like keyframing in
that you have a set of views that are mapped to some distance along the
parameterized space [0., 1.]. When the parameterized space is sampled
with some number of samples, VisIt calculates the view for the specified
parameter value and returns a smoothly interpolated view. One benefit
over keyframing, in this case, is that you can use cubic interpolation
whereas VisIt_'s keyframing mode currently uses linear interpolation.

::

    # Do a pseudocolor plot of u. 
    OpenDatabase("/usr/local/visit/data/globe.silo") 
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "u") 
    DrawPlots() 
        
    # Create the control points for the views. 
    c0 = View3DAttributes() 
    c0.viewNormal = (0, 0, 1) 
    c0.focus = (0, 0, 0) 
    c0.viewUp = (0, 1, 0) 
    c0.viewAngle = 30 
    c0.parallelScale = 17.3205 
    c0.nearPlane = 17.3205 
    c0.farPlane = 81.9615 
    c0.perspective = 1 
        
    c1 = View3DAttributes() 
    c1.viewNormal = (-0.499159, 0.475135, 0.724629) 
    c1.focus = (0, 0, 0) 
    c1.viewUp = (0.196284, 0.876524, -0.439521) 
    c1.viewAngle = 30 
    c1.parallelScale = 14.0932 
    c1.nearPlane = 15.276 
    c1.farPlane = 69.917 
    c1.perspective = 1 
        
    c2 = View3DAttributes() 
    c2.viewNormal = (-0.522881, 0.831168, -0.189092) 
    c2.focus = (0, 0, 0) 
    c2.viewUp = (0.783763, 0.556011, 0.27671) 
    c2.viewAngle = 30 
    c2.parallelScale = 11.3107 
    c2.nearPlane = 14.8914 
    c2.farPlane = 59.5324 
    c2.perspective = 1 
        
    c3 = View3DAttributes()
    c3.viewNormal = (-0.438771, 0.523661, -0.730246) 
    c3.focus = (0, 0, 0) 
    c3.viewUp = (-0.0199911, 0.80676, 0.590541) 
    c3.viewAngle = 30 
    c3.parallelScale = 8.28257 
    c3.nearPlane = 3.5905 
    c3.farPlane = 48.2315 
    c3.perspective = 1 
        
    c4 = View3DAttributes() 
    c4.viewNormal = (0.286142, -0.342802, -0.894768) 
    c4.focus = (0, 0, 0) 
    c4.viewUp = (-0.0382056, 0.928989, -0.36813) 
    c4.viewAngle = 30 
    c4.parallelScale = 10.4152 
    c4.nearPlane = 1.5495 
    c4.farPlane = 56.1905 
    c4.perspective = 1 
        
    c5 = View3DAttributes() 
    c5.viewNormal = (0.974296, -0.223599, -0.0274086) 
    c5.focus = (0, 0, 0) 
    c5.viewUp = (0.222245, 0.97394, -0.0452541) 
    c5.viewAngle = 30 
    c5.parallelScale = 1.1052 
    c5.nearPlane = 24.1248 
    c5.farPlane = 58.7658 
    c5.perspective = 1 
        
    c6 = c0 
        
    # Create a tuple of camera values and x values. The x values 
    # determine where in [0,1] the control points occur. 
    cpts = (c0, c1, c2, c3, c4, c5, c6) 
    x=[] 
    for i in range(7): 
      x = x + [float(i) / float(6.)] 
        
    # Animate the view using EvalCubicSpline. 
    nsteps = 100 
    for i in range(nsteps): 
      t = float(i) / float(nsteps - 1) 
      c = EvalCubicSpline(t, x, cpts) 
      c.nearPlane = -34.461 
      c.farPlane = 34.461 
      SetView3D(c)

Working with annotations
------------------------

Adding annotations to your visualization improve the quality of the
final visualization in that you can refine the colors that you use, add
logos, or highlight features of interest in your plots. This section
provides some recipes for creating annotations using scripting.

Using gradient background colors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt_'s default white background is not necessarily the best looking
background color for presentations. Adding a gradient background under
your plots is an easy way to add a small professional touch to your
visualizations. VisIt provides a few different styles of gradient
background: radial, top to bottom, bottom to top, left to right, and
right to left. The gradient style is set using the
*gradientBackgroundStyle* member of the AnnotationAttributes object. The
before and after results are shown in :numref:`Figure %s <annotations1>`.


::

    # Set a blue/black, radial, gradient background. 
    a = AnnotationAttributes() 
    a.backgroundMode = a.Gradient 
    a.gradientBackgroundStyle = a.Radial 
    a.gradientColor1 = (0,0,255,255) # Blue 
    a.gradientColor2 = (0,0,0,255) # Black 
    SetAnnotationAttributes(a) 


.. _annotations1:

.. figure:: images/annotation1.png
   :alt: Before and after image of adding a gradient background.
   :width: 5in

   Before and after image of adding a gradient background.

Adding a banner
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Banners are useful for providing titles for a visualization or for
marking its content (see :numref:`Figure %s <annotations2>`).
To add an "Unclassified" banner to a visualization, use the following bit of 
Python code:

::

    # Create a text object that we'll use to indicate that our 
    # visualization is unclassified. 
    banner = CreateAnnotationObject("Text2D") 
    banner.text = "Unclassified" 
    banner.position = (0.37, 0.95) 
    banner.fontBold = 1 
    # print the attributes that you can set in the banner object. 
    print banner 

.. _annotations2:

.. figure:: images/annotation2.png
   :alt: Adding a banner
   :width: 3in

   Adding a banner

Adding a time slider
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Time sliders are important annotations for movies since they convey how
much progress an animation has made as well as how many more frames have
yet to be seen. The time slider is also important for showing the
simulation time as the animation progresses so users can get a sense of
when in the simulation important events occur. VisIt_'s time slider
annotation object is shown in :numref:`Figure %s <annotations3>`.

::

    # Add a time slider in the lower left corner 
    slider = CreateAnnotationObject("TimeSlider") 
    slider.height = 0.07 
    # Print the options that are available in the time slider object 
    print slider 

.. _annotations3:

.. figure:: images/annotation3.png
   :alt: Time slider annotation in the lower left corner
   :width: 3in

   Time slider annotation in the lower left corner

Adding a logo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Adding a logo to a visualization is an important part of project
identification for movies and other visualizations created with VisIt.
If you have a logo image file stored in TIFF, JPEG, BMP, or PPM format
then you can use it with VisIt as an image annotation (see 
:numref:`Figure %s <annotations4>`). Note that this approach can
also be used to insert images of graphs, plots, portraits, diagrams, or
any other form of image data into a visualization.


::

    # Incorporate LLNL logo image (llnl.jpeg) as an annotation 
    image = CreateAnnotationObject("Image") 
    image.image = "llnl.jpeg" 
    image.position = (0.02, 0.02) 
    # Print the other image annotation options 
    print image 


.. _annotations4:

.. figure:: images/annotation4.png
   :alt: Image annotation used to incorporate LLNL logo
   :width: 3in

   Image annotation used to incorporate LLNL logo

Modifying a legend 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VisIt_'s plot legends can be customized. To obtain the proper annotation 
object, you must use the name of the plot, which is a unique name that 
identifies the plot. Once you have the plot's name, you can obtain a 
reference to its legend annotation object and start setting properties to 
modify the legend. 

::

    # Open a file and make a plot
    OpenDatabase("/usr/gapps/visit/data/noise.silo")
    AddPlot("Mesh", "Mesh")
    AddPlot("Pseudocolor", "hardyglobal")
    DrawPlots()
    # Get the legend annotation object for the Pseudocolor plot, the second
    # plot in the list (0-indexed).
    plotName = GetPlotList().GetPlots(1).plotName 
    legend = GetAnnotationObject(plotName)
    # See if we can scale the legend.
    legend.xScale = 3.
    legend.yScale = 3.
    # the bounding box.
    legend.drawBoundingBox = 1
    legend.boundingBoxColor = (180,180,180,230)
    # Make it horizontal
    legend.orientation = legend.HorizontalBottom
    # moving the legend
    legend.managePosition = 0
    legend.position = (0.7,0.15)
    # text color
    InvertBackgroundColor()
    legend.useForegroundForTextColor = 0
    legend.textColor = (255, 0, 0, 255)
    # number format
    legend.numberFormat = "%1.4e"
    # the font.
    legend.fontFamily = legend.Arial
    legend.fontBold = 1
    legend.fontItalic = 1
    # turning off the labels.
    legend.fontItalic = 0
    legend.drawLabels = legends.None 
    legend.drawMinMax = 0
    # turning off the title.
    legend.drawTitle = 0
    # Use user-supplied labels, rather than numeric values.
    legend.controlTicks=0
    legend.drawLabels = legend.Labels
    # suppliedLabels must be strings, only valid when controlTicks is 0
    legend.suppliedLabels=("A", "B", "C", "D", "E")
    # Print the legend object so you can see the other properties
    # that you can set in order to modify the legend.
    print(legend)


