Project Meetings
================

Project meetings are held one hour per week currently on Tuesday afternoons.
A second one hour *special topics* meeting is scheduled on all contributor's calendars but is used infrequently.
Dialog at the end of the Tuesday project meeting determines if the *special topics* meeting time is needed.

Round Robin Dialog
------------------
The meeting begins with round-robin remarks from contributors on key items from the preceding week's work.
The intention is to keep remarks brief and to highlights mainly to ensure everyone is aware of key and impending changes related to VisIt_.
Sometimes contributors have nothing relevant to VisIt_ to mention in which case its perfectly fine for the contributor to *pass* during this round-robin dialog.

New Issue Triage
----------------
New issues are `triaged <https://www.bugsnag.com/blog/bug-triaging-best-practices>`_.
New issues can be found through a browser using GitHub's `issue search feature <https://github.com/visit-dav/visit/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+-label%3Areviewed>`_ and searching for issues missing the ``reviewed`` label. 
During triage, issues are discussed in some detail to help refine meaning and determine ``impact`` (low, medium or high) and ``likelihood`` (low, medium or high) as well as other special considerations such as whether the issue is manifesting an outright ``crash``, should be given higher ``priority`` or may represent ``low hanging fruit`` (a small amount of work that will yield high dividends).
Descriptions for the meaning of various labels to be applied to issues are provided on the `label description page <https://github.com/visit-dav/visit/labels>`_.
Some issue submissions require lengthy discussion and dialog to help refine into one (or more) specific bug fixes or enhancement requests.
Such issues are converted to discussions and should be gathered together to be discussed in a *special topics* meeting.

Unanswered Q&A Discussion Triage
--------------------------------
Discussion items that have yet to be answered are triaged.
Sometimes a new discussion will get converted to an issue.
We don't currently use any labels for discussions but we have several discussion *categories* and we may re-categorize discussions to put them in the right category.
We close any discussions which have been waiting for user response for more than 21 days.

Special Topics Meeting Topics/Agenda
------------------------------------
We consider the need and interest in using the upcoming special topics meeting time.
Sometimes, we opt to use this meeting time for further issue triage.
Other times, we decide on some topic(s) to discuss and contributors may prepare some informal materials.

Inclusive Moment
----------------
To begin the first project meeting of each new month a contributor shares an inclusive moment.
An inclusive moment is a factoid, resource, event, experience, etc. related to STEAM with the purpose of raising awareness, seeding deeper thinking and/or informing future action.

Whenever possible, we try to rotate responsibility to a different contributor each time.
There is an article that goes into `more details <https://hpc-workforce-development-and-retention.github.io/hpc-wdr/jekyll/update/2023/04/08/inclusive-minute.html>`__ about the inclusive minute exercise.
